
----

Consider the equation A*b = c, analogous to S*r1 = c1 above.  Given
"A" and c, we can solve for b.

Informally, this is a sort of deconvolution.  Formally, if the
columns of A are linearly independent it is change of basis--we 
are representing c as a linear combination of the channel imulse
response functions.

This signal b is the input to the CrIS convolution for the current
AIRS to CrIS transform, but it is also significant for AIRS.

Suppose we want to shift AIRS to a reference grid and set of SRFs.

spse we have real instrument, w/ SRFs S1, and model instrument
with SRFs S2.  (Similarly A1 and A2.)

[ how to relate this to AIRS channel shifts? ]

what does it mean to shift AIRS to a set of reference SRFs?

spse we have real instrument, w/ SRFs S1, and model instrument
with SRFs S2.  (Similarly A1 and A2.)

Then inv(A1)*c1 = b, and A2*b = c2 give channel radiances wrt
new basis.

----
as the rows of an nchan x k matrix S, and if "b" is a k-vector
of zeros with a single 1 at position j, representing an impulse at
v(j), then S*b is a column of S, and a good model for the impulse
response of the AIRS instrument at v(j).

Impulses at AIRS channel frequencies are just a special case of
the above.  If "A" is the S matrix with rows AIRS SRFs and columns
tabulated at AIRS channels frequencies rather some finer grid, and
"c" is an nchan impulse vector at some AIRS channel frequency, then
the impulse response is still A*c = r as above.  And given such an
impluse response r, c = inv(A)*r gives us back the impulse.

The convolution operator "A" is uniquely determined by its action on
impulses (which we can represent as an nchan x nchan identity matrix)
and so the deconvolution operator inv(A) is also unique, as long as
"A" is well-conditioned.


(2) physical meaning of AIRS deconvolutions

One way to think of the physical meaning of the "A" deconvolution
matrix below is that it gives one particular member of the set of
possible inputs that give rise to a particular channel spectra as
measured by AIRS.

In terms of the notation below, if r1 is some real continuous high
res spectra, then S*r1 = c, the associated AIRS channel radiances.

Now if we take inv(A)*c = r2, we get something at the channel grid.
We can embed r2 into the finer grid of r1--just match the closest
frequencys of r1 and leave the rest zeros.  Call this embedded fake
high res signal r3.

Now we have two signals, r1 and r3, real and fake, that give rise to
the same observed AIRS channel radiances c.

This is why it's not meaningful to talk about the response function
of r2--like r1, it's an input to the system.  But that's exactly what
we want for a reconvolution.

We'd like to do a proper fourier interpolation of r1 to CrIS specs,
but we don't have it.  So we take r3 instead.  How well that works
is an interesting question.  AIRS can't distinguish the two signals,
and to the extent that CrIS can't either, it should work.

In practice I expect CrIS can distinguish r1 and r3, and that the
"A" transform will be more useful for AIRS reconvolution than CrIS
translations.

That makes the whole translation setup so far somewhat bogus, and
only interesting as an intermediate step.  What I'm actually doing
now is interpolating r2 to a finer dv grid rather than embedding it
in the r3 grid, but this is still suspect.  What I'd hoped to do was
find a pseudo-inverse for "S" directly, so that pinv(S)*c = r4, with
r4 a better substitute (than r3) for r1, for fourier interpolation
to the CrIS specs.

I'd spent some time on this earlier, looking at various pseudo
inverses and stabilizing constraints, but didn't have much luck.
I suspect now this was because I hadn't hit on the key idea of
trimming the too-close channels to improve the condition of "A".
That made a huge difference, inv(A) went from garbage to a well-
behaved inverse, and may be what I need to get a useful pseudo-
inverse of S.

(1) AIRS_CrIS_LW_trop_cold.fig from Sept. 4

> Here is my question.  The SA-1 matrix turns the resulting radiance
> for CrIS into a "perfect" sinc function for the SRF.  What does
> the AIRS SA-1 matrix turn the AIRS radiances into?  Some kind of
> average SRF?  What shape?  Is there any way to find out for sure?

One way to think about this is to continue the CrIS analogy
and ask what the behavior of the instrument is given an impulse
or monochromatic input.

If we tabulate the AIRS SRFs at a high resolution (say the kcarta
dv) as the rows of an nchan x k matrix S, and if "b" is a k-vector
of zeros with a single 1 at position j, representing an impulse at
v(j), then S*b is a column of S, and a good model for the impulse
response of the AIRS instrument at v(j).

Impulses at AIRS channel frequencies are just a special case of
the above.  If "A" is the S matrix with rows AIRS SRFs and columns
tabulated at AIRS channels frequencies rather some finer grid, and
"c" is an nchan impulse vector at some AIRS channel frequency, then
the impulse response is still A*c = r as above.  And given such an
impluse response r, c = inv(A)*r gives us back the impulse.

The convolution operator "A" is uniquely determined by its action on
impulses (which we can represent as an nchan x nchan identity matrix)
and so the deconvolution operator inv(A) is also unique, as long as
"A" is well-conditioned.

